# MICB 475 Meeting Agenda

## Feb 29, 2024

## Points of Discussion

- [ ] Training the classifier
- [ ] Deciding the cutoff for sampling depth
- [ ] Our timeline is a rough draft - what should we prioritize? Get statistical analysis done sooner rather than later?
- [ ] What are the best ways to represent the data for Aims 2 and 3?

## Background for point of discussion 4

### Aim 2. Investigate how the behaviour of Crohn's disease based on the Montreal classification system impacts the microbial diversity of  patients.
- 2:A Import raw sequences and generate demux.qza 
- 2:B Bin calprotectin, Crohn’s Disease behavior and location data: add 3 columns to describe “TRUE”, “FALSE” inflammation and “High”, “Medium”, “Low” disease severity and “L1”, “L2”, “L3” CD location and generate new .qza file
- 2:C Denoise and cluster to generate table.qza and resp-qza
- 2:D Taxonomy-based filtering to remove non- bacterial sequences
- 2:E Install ‘microeco’ and then import data from QIIME2 into microeco [25, 26]. Create a microeco object with the dataset.
- 2:F Using R and microeco package to perform an abundance and prevalence analysis. 
- 2:G Install ‘indicspecies’ and load it in and perform indicator species analysis.
- 2:H Produce bar plots for abundance data. Produce heatmaps for prevalence data and indicator species analysis results
- 2:K Perform statistical analysis on R

### Aim 3. Assessing the Impact of Inflammation on Microbial Composition Across Different Crohn’s Disease Locations
- 3:A Import raw sequences and generate demux.qza 
- 3:B Bin calprotectin, Crohn’s Disease behavior and location data: add 3 columns to describe “TRUE”, “FALSE” inflammation and “High”, “Medium”, “Low” disease severity and “L1”, “L2”, “L3” CD location and generate new .qza file
- 3:C Denoise and cluster to generate table.qza and resp-qza
- 3:D Taxonomy-based filtering to remove non- bacterial sequences
- 3:E Install ‘microbiome’ package. Install ‘phyloseq’ package and then import data into phyloseq [27]. Create a phyloseq object with the dataset.
- 3:F Using R, microbiome, and phyloseq object to perform a core microbiome analysis
- 3:G Produce a heatmap on R to visualize the core
- 3:H Correlation analysis with Inflammation levels and visualization with a scatter plot
- 3:K Perform statistical analysis on R




